.\" $Id: g4tool.1,v 1.2 2002/02/07 21:47:45 eichholz Exp $
.TH g4tool 1 "FEBRUARY 2002" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
g4tool \- decode G4 files to other formats

.SH SYNOPSIS
g4tool [ \fB-o\fR \fIformat\fR ] [ \fB-w\fR \fIxpixels\fR \fB-h\fR \fIypixels\fR ] [ \fB-b\fR ] [ \fB-P\fR \fIpclopt\fR ] [ \fB-c\fR ] [ \fB-C\fR ] [ \fB-M\fR ] [ \fB-W\fR \fIwarns\fR ] [ \fB-r\fR ]
.nf
g4tool -V
g4tool -H
g4tool -o pcl -b < doc.bacon > doc.pcl
g4tool -w 600 -h 600 < doc.600x600.g4 > doc.pbm

.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBg4tool\fR is a tool designed for decoding a graphics file according
to the ITU T.4 specification (aka G4). It reads a file from standard
input and writes the result to standard output.

Input can be raw a T.4 stream. Then the dimensions must be given with
the \fB\-w\fR and \fB\-h\fR. The dimensions must really fit, because
elseway the T.4-decoder will stumble over unknown symbols. That is
because the encoding is not context free.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-b\fR
decode BACON header

.IP \fB\-c\fR
clip and center EPx/WO/DEx page to fit into A4. This is a really hand
optimized balance for a special application.

.IP \fB\-C\fR
Clip and center simple. When the original page is greater than the
printable area (defaults to a HP Laserjet 4 PCL printable area for A4
paper), the margin is cut simply around the center. This is the
preferred mode for most applications.

.IP "\fB\-d\fR \fIwhat\fR"
Set debugging on STDERR on. Available debugging modes are \fBp\fR for
pcl, \fBv\fR for normal verbosing, \fBc\fR for codecheck or \fBe\fR
for encoder debugging. Only one debug flag can be activated per
\fB-d\fR option.

.IP "\fB\-h\fR \fIrows\fR"
Specify number of \fIrows\fR rows of a raw T.4 input file.

.IP \fB\-H\fR
Give a help page like this.

.IP \fB\-M\fR
Clip page absolute (suppress border)

.IP "\fB\-o\fR \fIformat\fR"
Specify encoder format. Available formats are \fBp\fRcl, raw-\fBG\fR4,
tiff-\fBg\fR4 or \fBt\fRiff. Default is PBM.

.IP \fB\-P\fR : Use special PCL codes and hacks. Available are \fBP\fR\fIdpi\fR for PCL resolution \fIdpi\fR (default is 300), \fBl\fR for dedicated landscape encoding and \fBp\fR for portrait encoding.

.IP \fB\-r\fR
Rotate page before encoding. This option needs a large printing
framebuffer (1 Byte per 8 Pixel).

.IP "\fB\-s\fR \fIhsize\fR"
Skip \fIhsize\fR header bytes before processing raw T.4 input
stream. Don't forget to specify real with and height with the \fB-w\fR
and \fB-h\fR options.

.IP \fB\-V\fR
Request version string

.IP "\fB\-w\fR \fIwidth\fR"
Specify the number of columns in the raw T.4 input file.

.IP "\fB\-W\fR \fIwarnopt\fR"
Change warning behaviour. With warnoption \fIl\fRine, the check of
line count is deactivated. Some BACON encoders seem to disagree about
the counting method od rows and specify one row too much. So, option
\fB-W l\fR doesn't bug You.

.SH TODO

The program really needs to large buffers, mainly for a complete page
frame buffer. It is pretty fast, but has a big memory footprint at
least for image rotation.

The string-to-table-translation is not really efficient for program
startup, too. Perhaps it can be done at compile time. This approach
nevertheless was good for debugging the decoder and encoder.

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Marian Eichholz <eichholz@computer.org>
Oliver Dunkelberg <oliver.dunkelberg@freenet.de>
